# INSTALL.md

## Project Overview

Project Two consists of a Fortran code designed to read two matrices line by line, store them, and then multiply them using different methods.  
This `INSTALL.md` file includes a brief explanation on how to run the code.  

---

## Getting Started

### a) Clone the Repository

First, you need to clone the following repository to your local machine to access the code:  

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aserranoTCCM/ACT-Homeworks/project2
```
This directory contains various files and subdirectories.
The code is located in a folder named src/, which contains a module with definitions and subroutines called sparsematrix.f90, and the main program file named main.f90.

---

### b) Copiling the Code
To compile the code, type the following command in your terminal:

```bash

gfortran -g sparsematrix.f90 main.f90 -o [name_of_your_program] -lblas
```

Make sure you have the gfortran compiler installed on your system.

This will generate an executable with the name of your choice.

---
### c) Running the Code
To execute the program, use the following command:
```bash
./[name_of_your_program]
```

If you run this in the terminal, it will display instructions on what the program requires to perform the calculation:
```bash
./[name_of_your_program] [matrix1] [matrix2] [name_of_your_output]
```

This means you need to provide:

./ followed by the name of your compiled program.
The two matrices you want to multiply.
The name of the output file where the results will be saved.

---
### d) Test Inputs and Outputs

The data/ folder contains two subdirectories:

input_matrices/: This folder includes a series of sparse matrices of two different sizes (25x25 and 125x125).
outputs/: This folder contains output files generated by multiplying the appropriate matrices.
All these matrices have been pre-multiplied (when sizes match) to analyze the timing performance and scalability of the different multiplication methods.

Additionally, using these matrices, a plot has been created to study the performance of various multiplication methods in terms of computational time relative to the density of the resulting matrices.




